dvdbak - a collection of utilites to allow you to backup your DVDs. 

This is NOT intended to be used for illegal activities, and use of these
scripts and the tools they rely on my be illegal in your area.

You are responsible to know about this, and you agree to accept all 
responsibility for using these scripts illegally.

The use case for this is a family with children who own DVDs.  Most 
people realize that giving a child a DVD is very similar to throwing it
away.  It most likely will not last long.

The scripts here tie a number of tools together to be able to backup
movies and DVDs. 
mplayer, dvdbackup, dvdrip, vlc, handbrake, ddrescue, isoinfo, mkisofs, 
vobcopy, ffmpeg, and cdrecord are all here, because some of these 
work with some movies and some don't.  

The usage information is obtained with dvdbak -h.

Generally, the dvd main movie can be backed up using this sequence:

dvdbak -i -i

The Handbrake title is almost always the correct one. Then:

dvdbak -f back -m mtitle -t 1
Will copy title 1 without encryption to a movie called CD_NAME.mpg

The directory structure is hardcoded as follows:
All paths are set in dvdbak.common. This file must be in the same 
directory as dvdbak.

The default device is: /dev/sr0 (can be changed on the command line)

The root of operations is set to: /bulk/media/movies (can also be 
changed on the command line.)

Under here are these directories:
decrypted - output of dvdbackup
iso.in - output of ddrescue
iso.out - output of dvd mkisofs (-f dvd)
dvdauth - output of dvd auth (-f auth)

Great care has been taken to prevent overwiting of existing files. If in
-b mode, the scripts just start incrementing a number at the end of the 
movie name starting at 0.

It also attempts to detect DVDs that have been purposefully corrupted,
and gives recomendations on procedure given the information.

Bad blocks does work, but some movies may have a glitch part way through
These still need some work, but 99% of the movies seem to work.
Patches have already been made to libdvdread, and should be in 12.04 
precise.

These scripts could very easily be automated with UDEV by calling 
dvd -i -i on DVD insertion, then dvd -f back once the title is found.

The DVD ejects automatically when the script finishes.
If you want to grab the previews, I use VLC to find them (by playing the
movie) and writing down the title numbers. Then use something like this:

for i in 3 4 5; do dvdbak -f back -b mtitle -n Preview$i.mpg -x -t $i; done; eject /dev/sr0

This will generate a Peview3.mpg Preview4.mpg Preview5.mpg.

These scripts do not attempt to re-encrypt the DVD content, so you will
need to find another way to accomplish that.




